# Private vs Public IP (IPv4)
Networking has two sorts of IPs. IPv4 and IPv6
IPv4 allows for 3.7 billion different address in public space
IPv4: [0-255]

Public IP means the machine can be identified on the internet
Must be unique across the whole web and unique
Can be geo-located easily

Private IP
Two different private networks can have the same IPs.
Try to avoid using Elastic IP:
They often reflect poor architectural decision;
Instead, use a random public IP and register a DNS name to it.
Or use a Load Balancer and don’t use a public IP

E2C machine comes with:
A private IP for the internal AWS Network
A public IP, for WWW

Doing SSH into EC2 machines:
We can only use public IP

#*Spot Instance 
Spot Fleets: set of Spot Instance + On-Demand Instance
Strategies to allow Spot Instances:
LowestPrice: from the pool with the lowest price
Diversified: distributed across all pools
CapacityOptimized

#Placement Groups
When create a placement group, specify one of the following strategies for the group :
a.	Cluster: Same rack / Same AZ
Pros: Great network
Cons: If the rack fails, all instances fails at the same time
Use case:
Big data job needs to complete fast
Application needs low latency and high network

b.	Spread : Low risk
Pros: span across availability Zones / reduce risk / on different physical hardware
Cons: Limited to 7 instances per AZ per placement group 
Use cases: 
app needs maximize high availability
critical app must be isolated from failure from each other


c.	Partition
Uses Case: HDFS, HBase, Cassandre, Kafka

#ENI – Elastic Network Interfaces （ENI）
A virtual network card

#EC2 Hibernate
a.	The in-memory (RAM) state is preserved
b.	The instance boot is much fatser
(the OS is not stopped / restarted)
c.	Under the hood.
d.	The root EBS volume must be encrypted
Use case:
a.	Long -running processing
b.	Saving the RAM state
c.	Services that take time to initialize

#EC2 Nitro
a.	Underlying Platform for the next generation of EC2 instances
b.	New virtualization technology
c.	Allows for better performance:
1)	Better networking options
2)	Higher Speed EBS
d.	Better underlying security
e.	Instance types example

#EC2 – Understanding vCPU
a.	Multiple threads can run on one CPU
b.	Each thread is represented as a virtual CPU
c.	4CPU 2 threads per CPU = 8 vCPU in total
Have one thread per core, have better performance

#EC2 – Capacity Reservations
a.	CR ensure you have EC2 Capacity when needed
b.	Manual or planned end-date for the reservation
c.	No need for 1 or 3-year commitment
d.	Capacity access is immediate, you get billed as soon as it starts.
e.	Combine with RI and Savings Plans to do cost saving







